# RSI_data

Rural communities have gained greater attention in policymaking, journalism, and public discourse after years of relative obscurity. Regarding postsecondary education, it has become increasingly clear that rural-serving institutions (RSIs) play vital roles in supporting educational opportunity, social development, and well-being of rural communities. A challenge in advancing understanding about RSIs has been the lack of a formal framework for identifying them. This project developed an evidence-based metric for identifying RSIs that serve rural students and communities. 

## Index construction methodology
Factor analysis is used to construct the RSI metric using the principal factor method. Factor analysis is commonly used in statistical analysis when researchers wish to examine patterns of correlation among several variables. The Principal Factor Method seeks to find the so-called "principle" components of a set of variables that identify separate, uncorrelated patterns among the variables. In this sense, it is often used as a variable reduction strategy to form indices that represent information measured on several variables at the same time. It does so by finding linear combinations of the observed variables that correspond to separate components of the original data. These components of the overall variation are often identified as latent, or unobserved, factors that represent a combination of observed characteristics. Factor analysis derives loadings of the original variables that describe how the original variables relate to the new latent variable. These loadings act as weights for the original variables, much in the way parameters in a regression model work to predict the value of an outcome variable, so that the latent variable values are a weighted additive sum of the loading coefficients and the original data. The RSI index score is calculated using the loadings from the factor analysis applied to the original data. These values are naturally scaled to have a mean of 0 and variance of 1. To aid in interpretation of the RSI index, the index is re-scaled to have a minimum value of 1.
